[Music]
now consider this does the ohio state
university marching band have their
field maneuvers directed by aliens
hovering overhead high above the stadium
a scary theory to say the least
if you like that one check this out 13
of the scariest theories known to
humankind one of the most beautiful
things about humanity is that we
question everything where did we come
from where are we headed is there
intelligent life on earth
makes you wonder sometimes when the
mental gears really start moving people
can come up with theories that are
downright terrifying in this video
you'll learn about 13 of the scariest
theories that'll make you question
everything you thought you knew about
your reality but before we dive down
this thought-provoking rabbit hole
become a bona fide bright cider by
clicking that subscribe button we put
out several new videos every single day
so don't forget to enable post
notifications - all right you better
take a moment to stretch your muscles of
your mind because you're in for an
exhilarating intellectual ride number 13
the great filter when you really
consider the size of the universe it's
only reasonable to assume that it's
filled with countless life forms yet we
haven't stumbled across any of them so
far so why is that according to this
theory somewhere out there exists a
great filter the main purpose of this
filter is to stop those civilizations
that advance to the level of star
colonization if we suppose that this
idea is true there are three possible
scenarios for Humanity a we're unique
because we've passed the great filter
other civilizations haven't managed to
do this B were among the first potential
colonizers before the conditions in
space were too harsh for life-forms to
leave their home plan
yeah in this case chances are that we'll
soon encounter aliens see we haven't
reached the level of technological
development that's advanced enough to
pass through the filter consequently the
trial is still ahead of us number 12
higher dimensional beings let's imagine
something pretty bizarre now 2d people
obviously if you stared at them from a
certain angle like from the top they
wouldn't ever spot you they live
peacefully in their 2-dimensional lives
without any suspicion that someone's
watching them from above and now imagine
something even scarier what if a 4d
being was looking at you from their
four-dimensional world just like a 2d
person you wouldn't be able to notice
this creature in your 3d world you could
potentially interact with a 2d person if
you found the right angle in the same
manner a 4d life-form could talk to you
unfortunately even if these higher
dimensional beings exist they seem
reluctant to make contact with the human
race number 11 false vacuum this
scientific theory says that our universe
exists in a falseface state which means
that it's just a temporary thing what's
more it's only a small part of a larger
universe let's say this bigger universe
is a pot of boiling water according to
the false vacuum theory the universe we
live in would be just a tiny bubble on
the surface of the water but this can't
go on forever one day perhaps in
billions of years this false vacuum will
eventually burst and then the visible
universe around us will instantly vanish
with a pop without any preliminary
warning
and what that means for humanity well
you can probably imagine number 10 we're
living in a black hole
now you're probably aware that a black
hole sucks in everything around them but
what happens to the stuff it engulfs
what if a black hole already swallowed
us up long ago surprisingly some
physicists deemed this theory pretty
plausible according to dr. nikodem
Poplawski a theoretical physicist at the
University of New Haven everything that
a black hole sucks in may turn into a
new universe inside the hole or on the
other side of it
who knows maybe that's how our universe
was born and where its currently located
number nine white holes now the theory
of white holes is closely connected with
the previous idea while black holes
engulf all matter so that even light
can't escape white holes are quite the
opposite these formations are believed
to spit out everything that black holes
suck in in other words a white hole is a
hypothetical area of space-time that
nothing can enter from the outside but
light and matter can't escape from it
it's vice-versa for black holes you can
only enter one from the outside but
can't get free afterwards number eight
the multiverse theory you may have heard
of the existence of a parallel universe
in that place everything seems the same
but is in fact quite different the
multiverse theory takes it all one step
further and claims that there might be
countless other realities beside our own
now according to this theory we live in
a bubble that's just one of many other
bubbles they constantly pop up and
vanish not unlike so bubbles and who
knows maybe in one of these universes
dinosaurs still roam this planet number
seven brain-in-a-vat this idea has
provided the groundwork for a number of
thought experiments just consider the
following statements the origin of
consciousness is the brain the brain
electrical impulses to operate however
it can also be influenced by external
stimuli thus if such stimuli are
simulated to a high degree the brain
won't be able to distinguish these
artificial stimuli from natural ones
basically what this means is that you
very well could be just a brain in a jar
something is feeding you false impulses
and you're hallucinating your whole life
and reality now that's a truly weird
thought number six
locos Basilisk locos basileus is a
hypothesis that some future super
powerful artificial intellect can
retroactively lis punish people who've
struggled against it in the past which
is our present or even those who did
nothing to help bring it about this
theory mostly explores the possible
consequences of developing AI to such an
advanced level that it can backfire on
us
who comes up with this stuff ready for
more number 5 the trance engine
hypothesis how about a less scary more
positive theory for a change well I'm
ready for that the trance engine
hypothesis states that a civilization
eventually gets to a certain
intellectual level having reached this
point it manages to achieve microscopic
technological singularity ok stay with
me now and create a black hole which
will allow this civilization to leave
its visible universe this way it'll take
its complexity intelligence and growth
to new levels at the radar scientific
development is going this becomes a real
optimistic probability for the human
race
number 4 the terror management theory
according to this idea everything we do
comes from the fear of death our wishes
and motivation are based on just one
thing and it's the idea that one day we
will stop existing when you consider
modern medicine or even just anti-aging
procedures and products it becomes
obvious that we really are desperately
trying to avoid death
science works day and night to ensure
that humanity will survive and the human
lifespan will become longer and longer
number three the sixth mass extinction
this theory is probably the most
horrifying yet unfortunately it's the
most probable scenario some biologists
believe that humanity is headed for or
already passing through the sixth mass
extinction it has to do with how
overpopulated our planet is in the 18th
century there were about 1 billion
people on earth but nowadays just a
couple hundred years later the number of
people on this planet has exceeded a
whopping 7 billion if nothing changes
the outcome will be unavoidable
basically humankind is due for a tragic
demise number 2 the Fermi paradox this
idea explains why we probably wouldn't
recognize an advanced alien civilization
even if it came up and bit us on the
butt this civilization could be so
advanced that humans would never
understand their ways as a result of our
dumb simplicity this technologically
developed race would never try to come
in contact with us after all you don't
pay attention to ants do you it's kind
of like how ants don't realize that a
highway you build near their anthill
is what it is a means of connecting
distant places we couldn't even fathom
the complexity of the civilization and
they in turn couldn't be bothered to
enlighten us number one the simulation
theory now according to the simulation
theory we all live in an incredibly
complex computer game yep nothing less
than that it's likely that either
humanity in the distant future or any
other technologically advanced alien
civilization has created or will create
numerous computer simulations and while
the number of these simulations was is
and will be almost infinite chances are
that we're living in one of them right
now sorry that was my mind blowing
so which theory impressed you the most
do you believe that any of these
theories could be true tell us in the
comments below and if at least one
theory managed to blow your mind like
mine hit the like button stay thirsty
for knowledge right here on the bright
side of life
[Music]